# Windows build

- Install Microsoft Visual Studio 2019
- Build a CEF distribution with patches that make the embedded Chromium use an in-memory text-only clipboard that Browservice can access (note that this takes a lot of time, memory and disk space):
    - See the instructions in https://bitbucket.org/chromiumembedded/cef/wiki/AutomatedBuildSetup.md#markdown-header-windows-configuration
    - Ensure that you have the Visual Studio 2019 components mentioned in the instructions and Python 3 installed
    - Follow the instructions for running the `automate-git.py` script from https://bitbucket.org/chromiumembedded/cef/raw/master/tools/automate/automate-git.py with correct environment variables. Use flags `--url=https://bitbucket.org/toptalvitie/cef.git --branch=4844 --no-debug-build` to make the script use the CEF source code with Browservice patches from https://bitbucket.org/toptalvitie/cef/src/4844/ and skip debug build. Make sure to build in a short and safe path such as `C:\code`
    - After `automate-git.py` has run successfully, copy the created binary distribution tarball named `cef_binary_XYZ+XYZ+chromium-XYZ_windowsXYZ.tar.bz2` from `chromium\src\cef\binary_distrib` to this directory. You can remove the rest of the files generated by the build script.
- Install Browservice dependencies:
    - Install CMake
    - Install Microsoft vcpkg https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg with Visual Studio integration
    - Install required vcpkg packages using the following commands (these commands install both 32-bit and 64-bit versions; you may remove the ones not relevant for your build):
        ```
        vcpkg install openssl:x86-windows openssl:x64-windows
        vcpkg install pango:x86-windows pango:x64-windows poco[netssl]:x86-windows poco[netssl]:x64-windows libjpeg-turbo:x86-windows libjpeg-turbo:x64-windows
        ```
- Generate files needed to build Browservice:
    - Generate HTML template files by opening a command prompt in the `viceplugins\retrojsvice` directory of the working copy and running the following commands:
        ```
        mkdir gen
        python gen_html_cpp.py > gen\html.cpp
        ```
    - Extract the previously built CEF binary distribution tarball to this directory (this tarball contains the CEF binary distribution in a single directory, named similarly to the tarball).
    - Edit the `CMakeLists.txt` file in the CEF binary distribution directory, appending the line `add_subdirectory(${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/.. ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/browservice)` to the end of the file.
    - Create a subdirectory named ´build´ for the CEF binary distribution directory, navigate to it in a commmand prompt and run one of the commands below:
        ```
        # For 32-bit builds
        cmake -G "Visual Studio 16" -A Win32 ..

        # For 64-bit builds
        cmake -G "Visual Studio 16" -A x64 ..
        ```
        This creates a Visual Studio solution file `cef.sln` that we will use to build Browservice.
- Build Browservice:
    - Use Visual Studio to open the solution `cef.sln` in the `build` subdirectory of the CEF directory.
    - If you want to do a release build instead of a debug build, change the build configuration to `Release`.
    - In the Solution Explorer, right-click `browservice` project and click Build. The complete Browservice binary distribution is generated in the subdirectory `browservice\Release` (or `browservice\Debug` for debug builds) under `build`.
- If you want to create an official binary distribution:
    - Rename the `Release` directory to `browservice-v0.9.4.0-windowsXX` (replace `XX` by 32 or 64 depending on the target architecture)
    - Copy the redistributable DLL files `msvcp140.dll`, `vcruntime140.dll` and `vcruntime140_1.dll` (the last one only on 64-bit builds; it does not exist on 32-bit) to the directory from MSVC redist folder of the correct architecture (something like `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\VC\Redist\MSVC\14.29.30133\xYY` where `YY` is `86` or `64` depending on the target architecture).
    - Compress the directory into a zip file with same name with `.zip` appended.
